Autism is a developmental disorder characterized by difficulties with social interaction and communication, and by restricted and repetitive behavior. Parents often notice signs during the first three years of their child's life. These signs often develop gradually, though some autistic children experience worsening in their communication and social skills after reaching developmental milestones at a normal pace.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a range of neurodevelopmental disorders predominantly characterized by impaired social functioning and communication disturbances. Symptoms can include intense focus on one item, unresponsiveness, lack of understanding social cues (like tone of voice or body language), repetitive movements, or self-abusive behavior like head-banging. The severity of the symptoms varies widely among affected individuals. Other possible symptoms include learning to speak relatively late, not playing interactively with other children, avoidance of eye contact, lack of empathy, and social withdrawal. Children with ASD who have not developed sufficient language skills may act out, including screaming or crying, to express their needs. It is important to note that people with ASD may vary widely in their level of functioning, and not all people with ASD will experience all of the symptoms listed.
Early symptoms and signs in babies may vary but can include lack of eye contact or decreased eye contact, being overly focused on one item, and lack of back-and-forth play. Very young children may show early symptoms like loss of interest in social contact and social withdrawal.
Asperger syndrome is the name of a condition that was formerly classified as a separate entity by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders published by the American Psychiatric Association.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a condition that affects people's behaviour.
Symptoms of ADHD tend to be noticed at an early age and may become more noticeable when a child's circumstances change, such as when they start school.